Update README.md (#1)
fieldsoftheworld/.github: profile/README.md

# *F*ields of *T*he *W*orld (FTW)

## About 

> *F*ields of *T*he *W*orld (FTW) is an open, community-driven initiative to advance global agricultural intelligence by building and sharing tools, datasets, and models for field boundary detection. Originally launched as a benchmark dataset, FTW has expanded into a full ecosystem supporting research, development, and deployment of geospatial workflows for the cloud.

Reviewer: I think we should center this more on the goal / vision of building a global field boundary dataset. All the rest is pretty good, but make it clear that the driving goal is global data, though we also want to create the ecosystem of collaboration around that.

Reviewer: My simple version on https://source.coop/ftw 'Fields of The World is an effort to create a global dataset of every field in the world.' That was done really quick, so probably can be tighter. But I think it's to open with that goal, and then explain the ecosystem. And probably hint some that it could go beyond just boundaries.

I can try to take a crack at it at some point, but my head isn't in the right place right now.

> We aim to make field-scale analysis more accessible, reproducible, and comparable, enabling better land use monitoring, food security efforts, and agricultural insights. You can learn more at [fieldsofthe.world](https://fieldsofthe.world).

Reviewer: Probably would tweak the first part of this - I think the what it enables section is great. But I think it's a bit of a leap for most people on how global field boundaries make field-scale analysis more accessible. So I'd probably just explain a bit here about the state of things - that most countries don't have any maps of all their fields, let alone what crop is in them or if they're doing sustainable practices. And that we believe that EO data plus AI can get us much of the way there. In general we should emphasize a bit that our route to getting a global field boundary dataset is to leverage AI + EO.

> This GitHub organization contains all the code to download and use the FTW Dataset, along with other related repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This GitHub organization contains all the code to download and use the FTW Benchmark Dataset, along with repositories that make it easy to run FTW models and generate field boundaries.
```

The dataset is available on Source Cooperative ([link](https://beta.source.coop/kerner-lab/fields-of-the-world/)), and the [ftw-baselines](https://github.com/fieldsoftheworld/ftw-baselines) 
repository provides tools to easily get the data and start building models. You can also suggest new datasets to add in the [ftw-datasets-list issue tracker](https://github.com/fieldsoftheworld/ftw-datasets-list/issues)

---

> ## 🔎 What's in the FTW Ecosystem?

Reviewer: Should put links for each of the sections here, so it's clear where to go to get / use the part of the ecosystem.

### 🗂️ FTW Benchmark Dataset  

> Originally the core of the initiative, the **FTW Benchmark Dataset** is a global collection of labeled agricultural field boundaries, designed to benchmark model performance and support open research. It aggregates and harmonizes a number of open datasets into 1.6 million parcel boundaries and over 70,000 samples covering diverse agricultural landscapes across 4 continents and 24 countries.

Reviewer: I think it's still the 'core' of the initiative. So probably tweak this a bit to get across it's still core, but that the initiative used to only be the dataset... Might be easier to explain that concept somewhere above a bit.

**What’s included in the Benchmark Dataset?**  
- Publicly available, labeled field boundaries from around the world  
- Uniform data formatting and metadata schema  
- A maintained subset of training/validation/test data  
- Tools to evaluate model performance on shared benchmarks  
- Contribution guidelines for submitting new datasets

### 🧠 FTW Baseline Models  

> Reference implementations of machine learning models trained on the FTW Benchmark Dataset. These models offer starting points and performance baselines for researchers and practitioners.

Reviewer: Should link to hugging face and/or https://github.com/fieldsoftheworld/ftw-baselines/releases/tag/v1 and also mention that they are part of torchgeo. Ideally we'd eventually link to a tutorial on how to use the models.

### 🛠️ FTW Tools  

> A growing suite of tools to support end-to-end workflows:

Reviewer: Should put links to most all of these.

- **Data access tools**: Python libraries and CLI tools to download and work with the benchmark dataset  
- **Inference tools**: Scripts and utilities to run field boundary detection on new imagery  
- **Formatting tools**: Resources to convert raw data into FTW-compliant format (e.g., fiboa to FTW train/test split)  

> - **QGIS Plugin**: A plugin to browse and interact with field data within QGIS

Reviewer: Probably should get across that the qgis plugin is still 'alpha' quality.

> ### 🌐 FTW Web App  

Reviewer: I think it's ok to link to the live app now, even though we're not 100% there. Should also link to the repo, and I think here would be a fine place to mention that it's powered by an API, and link to the API repo and the deployment repo

> A browser-based interface to explore, select, and analyze scenes using FTW models and data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A browser-based interface to easily run FTW models in any area of the world.
```
Just making this a bit more direct - the select & analyze scenes doesn't matter so much, and it doesn't really 'use' the data.

> ### 📡 FTW Source Data  

Reviewer: I still don't feel great about this name... But I guess I don't have anything better so we can go with it.

> Curated public datasets of manually labeled field boundaries—such as those hosted on [fiboa.org](https://fiboa.org)—that may serve as inputs to the benchmark dataset. These are raw sources prior to FTW formatting.

Reviewer: I don't think we want to bring up that they're hosted on fiboa.org. But we should mention that they are formatted using fiboa. 

```suggestion
Curated public datasets of field boundaries from government sources and hand-labeling campaigns, that may serve as inputs to the benchmark dataset. These are converted to [fiboa](https://fiboa.org) but are prior to FTW subsetting and harmonization.
```

### 🗺️ FTW Data Products  

> Large-scale outputs of model-inferred field boundaries (e.g., country-wide field maps). These are versioned and published for external research, planning, and applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large-scale outputs of model-inferred field boundaries (e.g., country-wide field maps). These are versioned and published for external evaluation, planning, and applications.
```

I wouldn't emphasize research so much here. Also should explain here that none are produced yet, but that there are in progress efforts for Latin America, Kenya, Vietnam, etc. (I forget the exact list, but we should put it). And that when the model quality is high enough we'll aim to produce a global-scale product.

---

## 🤝 Get Involved

We welcome contributions of:
- Field boundary datasets
- Model improvements
- Tool development
- Promotion and educational materials (blog posts, documentation, talks, papers, social media)
- Feedback and ideas

> 🧑‍💻 Check out our repositories  

Reviewer 2: nit should this have a link to different repos?

Author: @m-mohr Which repos would you point people to for each of these contribution options?

Reviewer 3: I guess you've listed it already in "What's in the FTW Ecosystem?", but without actual links to the repos?! :-)

Reviewer: Yeah, I think the links should be in the FTW ecosystem.
